# Cplusplus_ABC_University
<b>What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?<br>
How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.<br>
How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?</b>
<p>Throughout this course we were to evaluate complex data structures that solve a given problem using advanced algorithmic designs. We explored vector sorting,linked lists, hash tables and binary search tree data structures and how to utilize them.<br>
<p><b>Vector</b> - For this assignment, the information provided was extracted from a municipal government data feed containing bids submitted for the auction of properties. Two csv files were provided (a larger set of 12,023 bids and a smaller set of 76 bids). We were tasked with practicing sorting algorithms by implementing a selection sort and a quicksort of a vector of bids from the given csv files.<br>
Starter code was provided with incomplete methods. Using Visual Studio/C++ project we can show the faster processing speed of the quicksort vs the selection sort. After creating the project I was getting errors when compiling. I was able to correct by renaming folder to “old” and setting up a new empty project and then add existing files to the appropriate folders. After that added some extra lines to make it easier to read the results. The comments were very helpful in creating the methods.</p>
<p><b>Linked Lists</b> - For this assignment, the information provided was extracted from a municipal government data feed containing bids submitted for the auction of properties. Two csv files were provided (a larger set of 12,023 bids and a smaller set of 76 bids). We were tasked with exploring linked lists and implementing a singly linked list to hold a collection of bids loaded form a CSV file.<br>
Starter code was provided with incomplete methods. Using Visual Studio/C++ project we needed to initialize the housekeeping variables in the constructor, append a bid to the end of the list, prepend a bid to a front of list, print all of the bid entries, remove a bid using the bid ID passed in, and search for a bid using the bid ID passed in. The comments were very helpful in inserting the code. Definitely helped with understanding working with nodes and linked lists.
</p>
<p><b>Hash Tables</b> - For this assignment, the information provided was extracted from a municipal government data feed containing bids submitted for the auction of properties. Two csv files were provided (a larger set of 12,023 bids and a smaller set of 76 bids). We were tasked with exploring linked lists and implementing a singly linked list to hold a collection of bids loaded from a CSV file.<br>
The starter code provided a console program that used a menu to enable testing for the hash table logic. We completed the empty methods representing the programming interface used to interact with a hash table. Using Visual Studio/C++ project we needed to define and initialize structures to hold bids (vector used). Also, implement code to free storage when a class was destroyed, calculate a hash value, insert a bid and check for key collisions, use the chaining technique, print all bids, and remove a bid. The comments were very helpful in inserting the code. I got two errors. One was “cout is ambiguous” (“rescan solution” cleared) and the other was an “out of memory” error when initially compiling and testing but realized I didn’t have my csv files in the project folder.</p>
<p><b>Binary Search Tree</b> - For this assignment, the information provided was extracted from a municipal government data feed containing bids submitted for the auction of properties. Two csv files were provided (a larger set of 12,023 bids and a smaller set of 76 bids). We were tasked with exploring linked lists and implementing a singly linked list to hold a collection of bids loaded from a CSV file.<br>
The starter code provided a console program that used a menu to enable testing for the hash table logic. We completed the empty methods representing the programming interface used to interact with a binary search tree. Using Visual Studio/C++ project we needed to define structures for tree nodes and housekeeping variables. Also, implement code to insert and remove a bid from a tree, display all bids, and search the tree for a bid. The comments were very helpful in inserting the code. The remove function was not included so added it to the code following the resource video.
</p>
<b>How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs and evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable??</b>
<p>In my initial evaluation of the data structure to apply to the ABC University software I thought that a vector data structure would be the simplest application for the functionality that they needed. As I began to work on the code I realized that the tree structure was needed to address the functions needed by the University. It was a good lesson in seeing how each data structure can be applied to its achieve the most effective and effiecient proccessing possible. As with all development it should continue to be maintainable, readable and adaptable.</p>

